Init Sumo Logic's exporter (#196)
SumoLogic/opentelemetry-collector-contrib: exporter/sumologicexporter/README.md

# Sumo Logic Exporter

> This exporter supports sending logs and metrics data to the [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This exporter supports sending logs and metrics data to [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com/).
```

> This exporter supports sending logs and metrics data to the [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This exporter supports sending logs and metrics data to [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com/).
```

The following configuration options are supported:

- `url` (required): Unique URL generated for your HTTP Metrics Source. This is the address to send metrics to.
- `timeout` (optional): Timeout in seconds used for HTTP request

> - `method` (optional): HTTP method, one of: "POST" or "PUT". "POST" is used by default if unset.

Reviewer: nitpick: maybe you code tags for verb names?

```suggestion
- `method` (optional): HTTP method, one of: `POST` or `PUT`. `POST` is used by default if unset.
```

- `compress` (optional): Option to enable compression (default false)
- `compress_encoding` (optional): Compression encoding format, either gzip or deflate (default gzip)
- `max_request_body_size` (optional): Max HTTP request body size in bytes before compression (if applied). By default 1MB is recommended.
- `log_format` (optional): Format to post logs into Sumo. (default `json`)

>   - `text` - Logs will appear in SumoLogic in text format (taken from the field specified in log_key)

Reviewer: Maybe I'm not aware of this but where is this `log_key` defined/configured?

Author: I'll remove it. This concept is not needed in OTC as it has dedicated field for log body

>   - `text` - Logs will appear in SumoLogic in text format (taken from the field specified in log_key)
>   - `json` - Logs will appear in SumoLogic in json format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `text` - Logs will appear in Sumo Logic in text format (taken from the field specified in log_key)
  - `json` - Logs will appear in Sumo Logic in json format.
```

> - `metric_format` (optional): The format of metrics you will be sending, either graphite or carbon2 or prometheus (Default is graphite).

Reviewer: Any reason why we default to graphite or that's part of the boilerplate?

Author: I don't know. Is there any reason why `graphite` is default for https://github.com/SumoLogic/fluentd-output-sumologic ?
cc: @frankreno

- `source_category` (optional): Desired source category. Useful if you want to override the source category configured for the source.
- `source_name` (optional): Desired source name. Useful if you want to override the source name configured for the source.
- `source_host` (optional): Desired host name. Useful if you want to override the source host configured for the source.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  sumologic:
  # sumologic/customname:
    url: "https://events.sumologic.net/receiver/v1/http/<UniqueHTTPCollectorCode>"
    timeout: "5s"
    method: "POST"
    compress: true
    compress_encoding: "gzip"
    max_request_body_size: "1MB"
    log_format: "text"
    metric_format: "prometheus"
    source_category: "custom category"
    source_name: "custom name"
    source_host: "custom host"

> ```

Author: ToDo: Add information about which option should be used for which pipeline (logs/metrics)

# Sumo Logic Exporter

This exporter supports sending logs and metrics data to [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com/).

The following configuration options are supported:

- `url` (required): Unique URL generated for your HTTP Metrics Source. This is the address to send metrics to.
- `compress` (optional): Option to enable compression (default true)
- `compress_encoding` (optional): Compression encoding format, either gzip or deflate (default gzip)
- `max_request_body_size` (optional): Max HTTP request body size in bytes before compression (if applied). By default 1MB is recommended.
- `log_format` (optional) (logs only): Format to post logs into Sumo. (default `json`)
  - `text` - Logs will appear in Sumo Logic in text format
  - `json` - Logs will appear in Sumo Logic in json format.

> - `metric_format` (optional) (metrics only): The format of metrics you will be sending, either graphite or carbon2 or prometheus (Default is carbon2).

Reviewer 2: Just keep in mind both logs and metrics can be served by the same endpoint. 
Backend distinguishes metrics from logs checking at content type `Content-Type: application/vnd.sumologic.<metrics_type>`

Author: 👍  I'm aware of that, I added `metrics/logs only` info because of otelcol architecture

# Sumo Logic Exporter

This exporter supports sending logs and metrics data to [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com/).

The following configuration options are supported:

- `url` (required): Unique URL generated for your HTTP Metrics Source. This is the address to send metrics to.

> - `method` (optional): HTTP method, one of: `POST` or `PUT`. `POST` is used by default if unset.

Reviewer 3: TBH i dont think we need to expose PUT.  I believe collection only supports POST, might be wrong would be worth asking the collection team.  But i don't like exposing something that a customer would never change.

Author: cc: @pmalek-sumo and https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/outputs/sumologic

Reviewer: Thanks, will create a PR to correct it

> - `compress` (optional): Option to enable compression (default false)

Reviewer 3: Default should be true IMO.  Collector does this and in general, we want to send data as cheap as possibly.

- `compress_encoding` (optional): Compression encoding format, either gzip or deflate (default gzip)

> - `max_request_body_size` (optional): Max HTTP request body size in bytes before compression (if applied). By default 1MB is recommended.

Reviewer 3: 1mb before compression

Author: `By default 1MB is recommended.` ?

Reviewer 3: Sorry was not clear. What I meant was I believe the collection teams 1mb batches pre-compression. That was all I was calling out. Was not sure if this 1mb is ore compression or post compression.

Author: As I understand this description says 1mb pre-compression

> - `log_format` (optional) (logs only): Format to post logs into Sumo. (default `json`)

Reviewer 3: How does this work exactly? when would i use one or the other?

Author: It cames from https://github.com/SumoLogic/fluentd-output-sumologic#configuration and AFAIK `text` sends log without metadata and `json` includes additional fields

  - `text` - Logs will appear in Sumo Logic in text format
  - `json` - Logs will appear in Sumo Logic in json format.

> - `metric_format` (optional) (metrics only): The format of metrics you will be sending, either graphite or carbon2 or prometheus (Default is graphite).

Reviewer 3: Lets default to carbon2, not graphite

- `source_category` (optional): Desired source category. Useful if you want to override the source category configured for the source.
- `source_name` (optional): Desired source name. Useful if you want to override the source name configured for the source.
- `source_host` (optional): Desired host name. Useful if you want to override the source host configured for the source.

> - `timeout` (default = 5s): Is the timeout for every attempt to send data to the backend.

Reviewer 3: can we check with the collection team and ask what their respective defaults are here and the retry and sending queues? They may have opinions on what works best with Receiver.

Reviewer 2: ALB timeout is 55 sec.

# Sumo Logic Exporter

This exporter supports sending logs and metrics data to [Sumo Logic](https://www.sumologic.com/).

The following configuration options are supported:

- `url` (required): Unique URL generated for your HTTP Metrics Source. This is the address to send metrics to.
- `compress` (optional): Option to enable compression (default true)
- `compress_encoding` (optional): Compression encoding format, either gzip or deflate (default gzip)
- `max_request_body_size` (optional): Max HTTP request body size in bytes before compression (if applied). By default 1MB is recommended.
- `metadata_attributes` (optional): List of regexes for attributes which should be send as metadata

> - `log_format` (optional) (logs only): Format to post logs into Sumo. (default `json`)
>   - `text` - Logs will appear in Sumo Logic in text format
>   - `json` - Logs will appear in Sumo Logic in json format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `log_format` (optional) (logs only): Format to use when sending logs to Sumo. (default `json`) (possible values: `json`, `text`)
```

I have a suggestion of changing the structure of those bullet points into a list of values in parenthesis i.e. "possible values: `text` or `json`".

Reason for this is that other configuration options that have nested bullet points have a structure e.g. `retry_on_failure` and `sending_queue` have fields that can be customized while `log_format` is a key that requires a string value to be set (not a map/dict)

> - `metric_format` (optional) (metrics only): The format of metrics you will be sending, either graphite or carbon2 or prometheus (Default is carbon2).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `metric_format` (optional) (metrics only): Format of the metrics to be sent, either graphite or carbon2 or prometheus (default is carbon2).
```
